Adrian Elrod we're going to be talking
about the the Joe Biden story a little
bit later on there's a lot of
developments there but in terms of
president Trump's attempts here to own
the narrative how is he lining up
against Joe Biden in terms of approach
to coronavirus are Americans responding
to that they're not mica and this is one
of the reasons why you're seeing
independent voters swing it toward Joe
Biden suburban swing voters swing toward
Joe Biden
that is exactly mica why you're seeing
Texas tide right now Donald Trump and
Joe Biden tied in Texas that is
monumental
especially six months out before the
election Americans are losing trust and
confidence that Trump can handle this
this pandemic and they are worried about
the economy and then we're seeing
millions and millions of Americans file
for unemployment every single week and
fortunately I don't see this trajectory
ending anytime soon I don't think any of
this do and that is exactly why you're
seeing voters in the Dallas suburbs the
Houston suburbs San Antonio suburbs
there's a lot of suburban voters in
Texas and that is why you're seeing the
swing of course we're also seeing a tie
in North Carolina Joe Biden is leading
in Pennsylvania Wisconsin Michigan key
crucial States and then of course
Florida which is a virtually the Joe
Biden this couple two points up in
Florida and a lot of that has to do with
the fact that Donald Trump is also
losing support among older white voters
who really help propel him in 2016
you know John Heilemann if you would
have guessed this even a month ago
even with this pandemic raging because I
think few people expected the President
to continue to miss handle this crisis
as much as he did but you have Joe Biden
and Donald Trump tied in Georgia Joe
Biden and Donald Trump tied in Texas
Donald Trump losing to Biden in North
Carolina losing to Biden in Florida
losing badly to Biden in Pennsylvania
losing to Biden in Michigan losing to
Biden and in just about every swing
state what does Biden do moving forward
what
what what does I would ask what does
Donald Trump do moving forward but again
he he doesn't seem to be able to control
himself at all and and I'm just
wondering here we are in May and a lot
of people would say well it's way too
early but I still remember the two
thousand twelve story you wrote about
how barack obama defined mitt romney in
such a way in May that Romney never
recovered from it right you know you go
back and talk Joe to to the two smart to
people who have been at the core of
incumbent re-election campaigns White
House political directors and campaign
managers in INRI elections right so
Obama and twelve Bush in for Clinton in
1996 just that there's a lot of three
presidents in our lifetime right
all of them will tell you that all three
of those races in those real x had
presidents who were struggling in
various ways they were a little bit
below 50% or maybe a little bit more
than below 50% in their approval ratings
all of them were deeply concerned about
their bosses ability to win all of them
ended up winning and ended up winning
close races but not well blowout in 1986
with Clinton a very close race with Bush
in 2004 in a close to a blowout with
Obama and Romney in 2012 what all of
them say is that the biggest
misunderstanding that we all have even
people are sophisticated about politics
is that we think that the campaign is
fought in the fall and what they all say
is that for their bosses when they won
re-election they won reelection in the
spring that Bill Clinton defining Bob
Dole in the spring of 1996 is what won
the race for Brooklyn that George W Bush
defining John Kerry in the spring of
2004 is what won the re-election for
George W Bush and definitely the thing
you just mentioned the the job at the
Obama people did defining Mitt Romney in
the spring of 2012 the races and all of
those incumbent real acts were
determined by what happened in the
spring the state of the country the
arguments that were made by incumbents
who turned the race from a referendum on
them into a choice between them
and a opponent that they rendered
unacceptable in the public eye so we now
we come forward to 2020 we are in that
spring again and what you're seeing in
the polls that you just cited across the
board on the fundamental issue that's
gonna face these two candidates in this
fall the question of the coronavirus and
and president Trump's handling of it is
the race is slipping away from Donald
Trump I'm not trying to say he can't win
I'm just trying to say that if if
history is a guide this race is being
determined right now not after Labor Day
it's being returned now and if that's
true and that pattern holds then the
president's people should be deeply
concerned about what's happening right
now because views of him in with respect
to this central issue are hardening
right now and the Biden campaign isn't
even having to do very much to make it
happen that's a really worrying
situation for president Trump all right
we're gonna have much more head on that
sweeping Washington Post analysis what
exactly did those internal poll numbers
show that had the president reportedly
erupted in anger at his campaign manager
one of the reporters for the piece
Bob Kosta will be exact at where he
threatened to sue frass yeah plus by a
two-to-one margin Americans give far
better marks to the way governors are
handling the crisis versus the president
will talk to one of those state leaders
when Republican Mike DeWine of Ohio
joins the conversation you're watching
Morning Joe we'll be right back thanks
for checking out MSNBC on YouTube and
make sure you subscribe to stay
up-to-date on the day's biggest stories
and you can click on any of the videos
around us to watch more four Morning Joe
and MSNBC thanks so much for watching